+++
title = "Character Development"
date = "2014-06-09"

[taxonomies]
tags=["Game,","SA GameDev Competition 9","Status"]
+++

This rant is more stream of consciousness than normal. Tune in next time for a return to our regularly scheduled rant.It's been a little over a week since the commencement of the competition (and subsequent decision to make The Rage of Painting), so I've had some time to mill over the idea of the main character. Since the theme draws upon the charming hokeyness of public access, it seems now unwise to outright rip-off Bob Ross. Instead, in the sprit of PATV, the main character should be strongly influenced by, but entirely distinct from, Bob Ross.I'm having trouble making a character from the components of my friends thus far. Instead , I'll try and pick out generic people, add a personality quirk, and fast forward their lives.**Ross Franko** Truck driver turned painter who is convinced the CIA is recording video from his eyeballs.**Mike Newsman** A friendly and personable guy who was generally well liked as a kid. He aspired to be a correspondent in his adolescence, a dream he carried through to a degree in journalism. He joined the military in the early-mid stages of Vietnam to try and get a first-hand view of the situation. In keeping with his childhood tendencies, he befriends and units the huge plurality of his unit. The horrors of war start to chip away at their camaraderie, and after a particularly horrifying battle, they're collectively hospitalized. He's left distant and traumatized. The suicides of several of his brothers in arms only serves to amplify the damage to his psyche. He starts to paint as a way to escape from the reality of his situation. After discharge, he's returned to a society that despises him. He starts teaching art and history at a local community college. One of his students recommends painting on public access television, "Like that guy!" He views the activity as a compromise between journalism and the easy escapism of painting. Gradually, he considers dusting off his dream. (Fuck that's depressing.)**Buck Rossers** Rockstar physicist who is trying to earn money for his experiments by painting. This is a blatant rip of Buckaroo Bonsai.**Moss Ross** A sapient green ball of moss which acts like a combination of Groot and Meatwad.**Rob Moss** A deranged millionaire who loves painting and being on television. Kinda' like John Hodgeman. Strong anti-government and strong anti-corporate sentiments. Believes he is a direct male descendant of Ghengis Khan, who he repeatedly confuses with Khan from Star Trek II.**Robot Boss** An honest to god robot from the future who is attempting to pass off as completely human. Can't decide if it should be more panicky or Bender-esque + Aaron Stack. Should quote the Dalek and Cybermen.
