+++
title = "Spoopy Horror Game"
date = "2014-09-09"

[taxonomies]
tags=["Game,","Programming,","Status"]
+++

The Hidden: but as the "hidden" character you can "deploy" minions/ ghosts, etc Exactly. Or deploy one-hit jump scares to drive your victims further into insanity. Basically, trust the player to make a scary scenario.More jump-scary than the Hidden's vague voice throwingAlright. So how do we go about building levels in Spoopy?Truth be told I'm not sure. I started sketching out stuff in a notebook yesterday, but realized there aren't enough ideas jotted down for what the players/enemies can do to really get a good sense of how the levels should be laid out. I whiteboxed some stuff a while back. (Prior to the hard drive crash.)oofWe should probably re-summarize mechanics. So the seekers and the ghosts are on two teams. Seekers are humans looking to gather notes or to get to a destination. I like the idea of getting to a destination and gathering notes along the way. The problem I ran into with this is that if players aren't running around, like in Slender, then the jumps aren't so effective. Because you're always moving forward and rushing along. So if there's another option as far as getting things, that would be good. Maybe looking around for keys in a small section of map before advancing. Like L4D2, except instead of constant gogogo you have to slow down a bit and observe your surroundings. Actually, I kinda' like that.Well, what's the other side Ghouls or whatnotYeah. Dunno what we're calling them, but we had orderlies and nurses and doctors. Ghosts build up their ability to spawn jump scares by creeping out the players. I think this takes the form of lurking, like in slender. If you stare at a player, they get creeped out and build up insanity. At the same time, you can make jump scares faster. (Terror points, or some less dumb name.) Direct eye contact with players dramatically boosts build rate. Here's one thing which might be too complicated: When the players are above a certain level of paranoia/terror, the ghosts can do physical damage. Terror fades, physical harm does not.Question: should players be allowed to attack the ghosts?Dunno. What do you think? Defensive system? Like lights or flares?I sort of think they should Things like lights/flares would ward them off X amount of distance away So their spoopy-ness can't drive them insane too fast Or they can take a more direct approach and "kill them"Yeah.With like an iron axe or crowbarI don't know about outright kill. Since it's scarier to me that you can't stop them.Attacking a ghost sends the ghost back to a "spawn" area, and the player can recover a bit of insanity from "facing their fear" or some bullshit like thatHmm.But there should be a tradeoff In that you can only melee them (no ranged weapons)And maybe only melee them if you can see them?So in order to kill them, you have to get up close and be looking at them, taking a huge hit to sanity RightOh! At really high levels of paranoia, the nurses and orderlies become visible even when they're not seen in the mirror. So to get back into the green, gotta' start meleeing.Right. Don't Starve has a similar mechanicI dig it.Where you start seeing things as you get crazier, and eventually said things manifest themselves and can attack you directly In which you can attack back to drive them into the imaginary again Ok, so this ties in with my other idea If ghosts have a "spawn" point(s) then the object of humans can be to find and destroy said spawn points Which can be "cursed objects" like a lamp or whateverHmm.Once all objects are dsetroyed, ghosts can't spawn, humans winTwo ways to win. I like the idea of multiple ways to win. Destroy the spawn, find all the papers, get to the basement. So what kinda' jump scares do we have? Severed heads floating through the air? Animals which jump at you and disappear.Not really sureThose all impact the level design differently. Maybe we should forget about spawning jump scares for now and just focus on the creepiness aspect.That owrksLike, direct monster creepiness. Which means more dark, long hallways.Are we abandoning a single player campaign and just doing multiplayer?I kinda' want to. Not sure. I've been fucking with a lot of network stuff as of late, but I'm not convinced one way or the other. Oh! Oh. Every ghost has a physical attachment.I still like doing single player. It's a lot easier to craft horror from one-perspectiveLike, a patient loves his blanket.But, in either case, we need some playable mechanicsThose are the spawnpoints. Yeah.Yes And each physical aspect comes with its own set of scaresThat offers a possible multi-aspect. Ghosts have to get to their physical attachments to be able to do physical damage. But... no. Nah. Nevermind. What's our first level? The atrium?Most hospitals have an atrium type entrance Stairs and counters and whatnotLong hallways. Atrium. I'll at least sketch out something. Then I'll see if I can whitebox it tonight. If I can get a 12V connector I might be able to spin up my dead harddrive in an external enclosure. And get some data off it. Otherwise... Meh. Not hard to recreate ghouls.True. Anything is better than the thing I tried makingI meant logic-wise. I didn't like the Orderly model I made. I had some code which did damage with some stupid line-of-sight checks and all that. Wandering AI and that bullshit. Oh. The ghouls can fly through walls, yes? I didn't do wayfinding or navmesh.Hmm Maybe not all walls Then it gets confusing I thinkOkay.
